
JX Application Framework
Copyright (C) 1994-2011 John Lindal

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

---------------

Please note that libraries and programs built on top of the JX Application
Framework may unpack inside the JX source directory, but they may still be
subject to a different license.

If you need to modify the JX Application Framework source, either to get it
to compile on your system or to enhance it, you will save yourself a lot of
trouble by first discussing it with us because (1) it might already have
been done in preparation for the next release, (2) we can check that it
won't disrupt any of the myriad subtle interactions between library
components, and (3) we might think of an easier way to do it.

The LGPL requires that you release all successful changes to the JX
Application Framework under the same license.  We ask that you submit them
to New Planet Software so we can merge them into the master source to make
them easily accessible.  Custom widgets built on top of JX are your own and
are not subject to the LGPL, so you can do as you wish with them, but we
encourage you to make them available, too, so others can use them.

---------------

Both JCore and JX use the The ADAPTIVE Communication Environment (ACE)
library for all their networking needs.  According to the author of ACE,
Doug Schmidt, you are only required to mention ACE in your documentation if
you use it directly.  Indirect use via JCore or JX functionality does not
require you to mention it.  (But it wouldn't hurt if you mentioned it
anyway :)  The minimal text is:

"ACE is copyrighted by Douglas C. Schmidt and his research group at
Washington University, Copyright (c) 1993-1997, all rights reserved."

The ACE Copyright Web page has all the details:

    http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE-copying.html

---------------

If you compile JCore and JX to use Henry Spencer's Regular Expression
package as encapsulated by the JRegex class:

    If you do not use regexes in your code, you do not need to mention it.

    If your code uses regexes, but they are not visible to the user, then
    you only need to give Henry credit in the documentation for your code.

    If your application lets the user use regexes, then your program's
    documentation should mention it.

---------------

If you compile JCore and JX to use Philip Hazel's PCRE package as
encapsulated by the JRegex class, you must adhere to the following license:

    University of Cambridge Computing Service,
    Cambridge, England. Phone: +44 1223 334714.

    Copyright (c) 1997-2004 University of Cambridge
    All rights reserved.

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
          this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
          documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

        * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
          this software without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
    ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
    INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
    ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

---------------

JX uses the GD library to provide the PNG and JPEG related functions in
JImage.  If your program displays any PNGs or JPEGs at all, you must
include the following text in your program's documentation in a place where
the user can find it:

     Portions copyright 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
     by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. Funded under Grant P41-RR02188 by
     the National Institutes of Health.

     Portions copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 by
     Boutell.Com, Inc.

     Portions relating to GD2 format copyright 1999, 2000 Philip Warner.

     Portions relating to PNG copyright 1999, 2000 Greg Roelofs.

     Portions relating to libttf copyright 1999, 2000 John Ellson
     (ellson@lucent.com).

     Portions relating to JPEG and to color quantization copyright 2000,
     Doug Becker and copyright (C) 1994-1998, Thomas G. Lane. This
     software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG
     Group. See the file README-JPEG.TXT for more information.

     Portions relating to WBMP copyright 2000 Maurice Szmurlo and Johan
     Van den Brande.

     _Permission has been granted to copy, distribute and modify gd in
     any context without fee, including a commercial application,
     provided that this notice is present in user-accessible supporting
     documentation._

     This does not affect your ownership of the derived work itself, and
     the intent is to assure proper credit for the authors of gd, not to
     interfere with your productive use of gd. If you have questions,
     ask. "Derived works" includes all programs that utilize the
     library. Credit must be given in user-accessible documentation.

     _This software is provided "AS IS."_ The copyright holders disclaim
     all warranties, either express or implied, including but not
     limited to implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
     particular purpose, with respect to this code and accompanying
     documentation.

     Although their code does not appear in gd 2.0.1, the authors wish
     to thank David Koblas, David Rowley, and Hutchison Avenue Software
     Corporation for their prior contributions.

The main GD page has all the details:

    http://www.boutell.com/gd/

---------------

JX uses the XPM library to provide the XPM related functions in JXImage.
If your program displays any XPMs at all, you must include the following
text in your program's documentation in a place where the user can find it:

    Copyright (C) 1989-95 GROUPE BULL

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL GROUPE BULL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

    Except as contained in this notice, the name of GROUPE BULL shall not
    be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
    dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from
    GROUPE BULL.

The main libXPM page has all the details:

    http://www.inria.fr/koala/lehors/xpm.html

